When a great battle is reported in the papers, they do not keep
emphasizing the same facts over and over again. They try to get new
information, or a "new slant." The news that takes an important place in
the morning edition will be relegated to a small space in the late
afternoon edition. We are interested in new ideas and new facts. This
principle has a very important bearing in determining your emphasis. Do
not emphasize the same idea over and over again unless you desire to lay
extra stress on it; Senator Thurston desired to put the maximum amount
of emphasis on "force" in his speech on page 50. Note how force is
emphasized repeatedly. As a general rule, however, the new idea, the
"new slant," whether in a newspaper report of a battle or a speaker's
enunciation of his ideas, is emphatic.

In the following selection, "larger" is emphatic, for it is the new
idea. All men have eyes, but this man asks for a _LARGER_ eye.

This man with the larger eye says he will discover, not rivers or safety
appliances for aeroplanes, but _NEW STARS_ and _SUNS_. "New stars and
suns" are hardly as emphatic as the word "larger." Why? Because we
expect an astronomer to discover heavenly bodies rather than cooking
recipes. The words, "Republic needs" in the next sentence, are emphatic;
they introduce a new and important idea. Republics have always needed
men, but the author says they need _NEW_ men. "New" is emphatic because
it introduces a new idea. In like manner, "soil," "grain," "tools," are
also emphatic.

The most emphatic words are italicized in this selection. Are there any
others you would emphasize? Why?

The old astronomer said, "Give me a _larger_ eye, and I will
    discover _new stars_ and _suns_." That is what the _republic
    needs_ today--_new men_--men who are _wise_ toward the _soil_,
    toward the _grains_, toward the _tools_. If God would only raise
    up for the people two or three men like _Watt_, _Fulton_ and
    _McCormick_, they would be _worth more_ to the _State_ than that
    _treasure box_ named _California_ or _Mexico_. And the _real
    supremacy_ of man is based upon his _capacity_ for _education_.
    Man is _unique_ in the _length_ of his _childhood_, which means
    the _period_ of _plasticity_ and _education_. The childhood of a
    _moth_, the distance that stands between the hatching of the
    _robin_ and its _maturity_, represent a _few hours_ or a _few
    weeks_, but _twenty years_ for growth stands between _man's_
    cradle and his citizenship. This protracted childhood makes it
    possible to hand over to the boy all the _accumulated stores
    achieved_ by _races_ and _civilizations_ through _thousands_ of
    _years_.

--_Anonymous_.

You must understand that there are no steel-riveted rules of emphasis.
It is not always possible to designate which word must, and which must
not be emphasized. One speaker will put one interpretation on a speech,
another speaker will use different emphasis to bring out a different
interpretation. No one can say that one interpretation is right and the
other wrong. This principle must be borne in mind in all our marked
exercises. Here your own intelligence must guide--and greatly to your
profit.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES.

1. What is emphasis?

2. Describe one method of destroying monotony of thought-presentation.

3. What relation does this have to the use of the voice?

4. Which words should be emphasized, which subordinated, in a sentence?

5. Read the selections on pages 50, 51, 52, 53 and 54, devoting special
attention to emphasizing the important words or phrases and
subordinating the unimportant ones. Read again, changing emphasis
slightly. What is the effect?

6. Read some sentence repeatedly, emphasizing a different word each
time, and show how the meaning is changed, as is done on page 22.

7. What is the effect of a lack of emphasis?

8. Read the selections on pages 30 and 48, emphasizing every word. What
is the effect on the emphasis?

9. When is it permissible to emphasize every single word in a sentence?

10. Note the emphasis and subordination in some conversation or speech
you have heard. Were they well made? Why? Can you suggest any
improvement?

11. From a newspaper or a magazine, clip a report of an address, or a
biographical eulogy. Mark the passage for emphasis and bring it with you
to class.

12. In the following passage, would you make any changes in the author's
markings for emphasis? Where? Why? Bear in mind that not all words
marked require the same _degree_ of emphasis--_in a wide variety of
emphasis, and in nice shading of the gradations, lie the excellence of
emphatic speech_.

I would call him _Napoleon_, but Napoleon made his way to empire
    over _broken oaths_ and through a _sea_ of _blood_. This man
    _never_ broke his word. "No Retaliation" was his great motto and
    the rule of his life; and the last words uttered to his son in
    France were these: "My boy, you will one day go back to Santo
    Domingo; _forget_ that _France murdered your father_." I would
    call him _Cromwell_, but Cromwell was _only_ a _soldier_, and
    the state he founded _went down_ with him into his grave. I
    would call him _Washington_, but the great Virginian _held
    slaves_. This man _risked_ his _empire_ rather than _permit_ the
    slave-trade in the _humblest village_ of his dominions.