One of the chief means of securing emphasis is to employ a long falling
inflection on the emphatic words--that is, to let the voice fall to a
lower pitch on an _interior_ vowel sound in a word. Try it on the words
"every," "eleemosynary," and "destroy."

Use long falling inflections on the italicized words in the following
selection, noting their emphatic power. Are there any other words here
that long falling inflections would help to make expressive?

_ADDRESS IN THE DARTMOUTH COLLEGE CASE_

This, sir, is my case. It is the case not merely of that humble
    institution; it is the case of _every_ college in our land. It
    is _more_; it is the case of _every eleemosynary_ institution
    throughout our country--of _all_ those great charities founded
    by the piety of our ancestors to alleviate human misery and
    scatter blessings along the pathway of life. Sir, you may
    _destroy_ this little institution--it is _weak_, it is in your
    hands. I know it is one of the lesser lights in the literary
    horizon of our country. You may put it out. But if you do you
    must carry through your work; you must extinguish, one after
    another, _all_ those great lights of science which, for more
    than a century, have thrown their radiance over our land!

It is, sir, as I have said, a small college, and yet--there are
    those who _love_ it!

Sir, I know not how others may feel, but as for myself when I
    see my alma mater surrounded, like Caesar in the senate house,
    by those who are reiterating _stab_ after _stab_, I would not
    for this right hand have her turn to me and say, And _thou,
    too_, my son!

--DANIEL WEBSTER.

Be careful not to over-inflect. Too much modulation produces an
unpleasant effect of artificiality, like a mature matron trying to be
kittenish. It is a short step between true expression and unintentional
burlesque. Scrutinize your own tones. Take a single expression like "Oh,
no!" or "Oh, I see," or "Indeed," and by patient self-examination see
how many shades of meaning may be expressed by inflection. This sort of
common-sense practise will do you more good than a book of rules. _But
don't forget to listen to your own voice._

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. In your own words define (a) cadence, (b) modulation, (c) inflection,
(d) emphasis.

2. Name five ways of destroying monotony and gaining effectiveness in
speech.

3. What states of mind does falling inflection signify? Make as full a
list as you can.

4. Do the same for the rising inflection.

5. How does the voice bend in expressing (_a_) surprise? (_b_) shame?
(_c_) hate? (_d_) formality? (_e_) excitement?

6. Reread some sentence several times and by using different inflections
change the meaning with each reading.

7. Note the inflections employed in some speech or conversation. Were
they the best that could be used to bring out the meaning? Criticise and
illustrate.

8. Render the following passages:

Has the gentleman done? Has he completely done?

And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

9. Invent an indirect question and show how it would naturally be
inflected.

10. Does a direct question always require a rising inflection?
Illustrate.

11. Illustrate how the complete ending of an expression or of a speech
is indicated by inflection.

12. Do the same for incompleteness of idea.

13. Illustrate (_a_) trembling, (_b_) hesitation, and (_c_) doubt by
means of inflection.

14. Show how contrast may be expressed.

15. Try the effects of both rising and falling inflections on the
italicized words in the following sentences. State your preference.

Gentlemen, I am _persuaded_, nay, I am _resolved_ to speak.

It is sown a _natural_ body; it is raised a _spiritual_ body.

SELECTIONS FOR PRACTISE

In the following selections secure emphasis by means of long falling
inflections rather than loudness.

Repeat these selections, attempting to put into practise all the
technical principles that we have thus far had; emphasizing important
words, subordinating unimportant words, variety of pitch, changing
tempo, pause, and inflection. If these principles are applied you will
have no trouble with monotony.

Constant practise will give great facility in the use of inflection and
will render the voice itself flexible.

_CHARLES I_

We charge him with having broken his coronation oath; and we are
    told that he kept his marriage vow! We accuse him of having
    given up his people to the merciless inflictions of the most
    hot-headed and hard-hearted of prelates; and the defence is,
    that he took his little son on his knee and kissed him! We
    censure him for having violated the articles of the Petition of
    Right, after having, for good and valuable consideration,
    promised to observe them; and we are informed that he was
    accustomed to hear prayers at six o'clock in the morning! It is
    to such considerations as these, together with his Vandyke
    dress, his handsome face, and his peaked beard, that he owes, we
    verily believe, most of his popularity with the present
    generation.

--T.B. MACAULAY.

_ABRAHAM LINCOLN_

We needed not that he should put on paper that he believed in
    slavery, who, with treason, with murder, with cruelty infernal,
    hovered around that majestic man to destroy his life. He was
    himself but the long sting with which slavery struck at liberty;
    and he carried the poison that belonged to slavery. As long as
    this nation lasts, it will never be forgotten that we have one
    martyred President--never! Never, while time lasts, while
    heaven lasts, while hell rocks and groans, will it be forgotten
    that slavery, by its minions, slew him, and in slaying him made
    manifest its whole nature and tendency.