Thus far its use has been largely limited to the vocal and musical arts,
but it would not be surprising to hear tempo applied to more concrete
matters, for it perfectly illustrates the real meaning of the word to
say that an ox-cart moves in slow tempo, an express train in a fast
tempo. Our guns that fire six hundred times a minute, shoot at a fast
tempo; the old muzzle loader that required three minutes to load, shot
at a slow tempo. Every musician understands this principle: it requires
longer to sing a half note than it does an eighth note.

Now tempo is a tremendously important element in good platform work, for
when a speaker delivers a whole address at very nearly the same rate of
speed he is depriving himself of one of his chief means of emphasis and
power. The baseball pitcher, the bowler in cricket, the tennis server,
all know the value of change of pace--change of tempo--in delivering
their ball, and so must the public speaker observe its power.

_Change of Tempo Lends Naturalness to the Delivery_

Naturalness, or at least seeming naturalness, as was explained in the
chapter on "Monotony," is greatly to be desired, and a continual change
of tempo will go a long way towards establishing it. Mr. Howard Lindsay,
Stage Manager for Miss Margaret Anglin, recently said to the present
writer that change of pace was one of the most effective tools of the
actor. While it must be admitted that the stilted mouthings of many
actors indicate cloudy mirrors, still the public speaker would do well
to study the actor's use of tempo.

There is, however, a more fundamental and effective source at which to
study naturalness--a trait which, once lost, is shy of recapture: that
source is the common conversation of any well-bred circle. _This_ is the
standard we strive to reach on both stage and platform--with certain
differences, of course, which will appear as we go on. If speaker and
actor were to reproduce with absolute fidelity every variation of
utterance--every whisper, grunt, pause, silence, and explosion--of
conversation as we find it typically in everyday life, much of the
interest would leave the public utterance. Naturalness in public address
is something more than faithful reproduction of nature--it is the
reproduction of those _typical_ parts of nature's work which are truly
representative of the whole.

The realistic story-writer understands this in writing dialogue, and we
must take it into account in seeking for naturalness through change of
tempo.

Suppose you speak the first of the following sentences in a slow tempo,
the second quickly, observing how natural is the effect. Then speak both
with the same rapidity and note the difference.

I can't recall what I did with my knife. Oh, now I remember I
    gave it to Mary.

We see here that a change of tempo often occurs in the same
sentence--for tempo applies not only to single words, groups of words,
and groups of sentences, but to the major parts of a public speech as
well.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. In the following, speak the words "long, long while" very slowly; the
rest of the sentence is spoken in moderately rapid tempo.

When you and I behind the Veil are past,
    Oh but the long, long while the world shall last,
    Which of our coming and departure heeds,
    As the seven seas should heed a pebble cast.

Note: In the following selections the passages that should be given a
fast tempo are in italics; those that should be given in a slow tempo
are in small capitals. Practise these selections, and then try others,
changing from fast to slow tempo on different parts, carefully noting
the effect.

2. No MIRABEAU, NAPOLEON, BURNS, CROMWELL, NO _man_ ADEQUATE
    _to_ DO ANYTHING _but is first of all in_ RIGHT EARNEST _about
    it--what I call_ A SINCERE _man. I should say_ SINCERITY, _a_
    GREAT, DEEP, GENUINE SINCERITY, _is the first_ CHARACTERISTIC
    _of a man in any way_ HEROIC. _Not the sincerity that_ CALLS
    _itself sincere. Ah no. That is a very poor matter indeed_--A
    SHALLOW, BRAGGART, CONSCIOUS _sincerity, oftenest_ SELF-CONCEIT
    _mainly. The_ GREAT MAN'S SINCERITY _is of a kind he_ CANNOT
    SPEAK OF. _Is_ NOT CONSCIOUS _of_.--THOMAS CARLYLE.

3. TRUE WORTH _is in_ BEING--NOT SEEMING--_in doing each day
    that goes by_ SOME LITTLE GOOD, _not in_ DREAMING _of_ GREAT
    THINGS _to do by and by. For whatever men say in their_
    BLINDNESS, _and in spite of the_ FOLLIES _of_ YOUTH, _there is
    nothing so_ KINGLY _as_ KINDNESS, _and nothing so_ ROYAL _as_
    TRUTH.--_Anonymous_.

4. To get a natural effect, where would you use slow and where fast
tempo in the following?

_FOOL'S GOLD_