The business of manufacturing and selling liquor is one
        that affects the public interests in many ways and leads
        to many disorders. It has a tendency to increase
        pauperism and crime. It renders a large force of peace
        officers essential, and it adds to the expense of the
        courts and of nearly all branches of civil administration.

Justice Bradley, of the United States Supreme Court, says:

Licenses may be properly required in the pursuit of
        many professions and avocations, which require peculiar
        skill and training or supervision for the public welfare.
        The profession or avocation is open to all alike who will
        prepare themselves with the requisite qualifications or
        give the requisite security for preserving public order.
        This is in harmony with the general proposition that the
        ordinary pursuits of life, forming the greater per cent of
        the industrial pursuits, are and ought to be free and
        open to all, subject only to such general regulations,
        applying equally to all, as the general good may demand.

All such regulations are entirely competent for the
        legislature to make and are in no sense an abridgment
        of the equal rights of citizens. But a license to do that
        which is odious and against common right is necessarily
        an outrage upon the equal rights of citizens.

14. What method did Jesus employ in the following:

Ye are the salt of the earth; but if the salt have lost his
    savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for
    nothing but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.

Behold the fowls of the air; for they sow not, neither do they
    reap nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth
    them. Are ye not much better than they?

And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the
    field; how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin; And
    yet I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not
    arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass
    of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the
    oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?

Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he
    give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a
    serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts
    unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in
    heaven give good things to them that ask him?

15. Make five original syllogisms[26] on the following models:

MAJOR PREMISE: He who administers arsenic gives poison.
    MINOR PREMISE: The prisoner administered arsenic to the victim.
    CONCLUSION: Therefore the prisoner is a poisoner.

MAJOR PREMISE: All dogs are quadrupeds.
    MINOR PREMISE: This animal is a biped.
    CONCLUSION: Therefore this animal is not a dog.

16. Prepare either the positive or the negative side of the following
question for debate: _The recall of judges should be adopted as a
national principle_.

17. Is this question debatable? _Benedict Arnold was a gentleman._ Give
reasons for your answer.

18. Criticise any street or dinner-table argument you have heard
recently.

19. Test the reasoning of any of the speeches given in this volume.

20. Make a short speech arguing in favor of instruction in public
speaking in the public evening schools.

21. (_a_) Clip a newspaper editorial in which the reasoning is weak.
(_b_) Criticise it. (_c_) Correct it.

22. Make a list of three subjects for debate, selected from the monthly
magazines.

23. Do the same from the newspapers.

24. Choosing your own question and side, prepare a brief suitable for a
ten-minute debating argument. The following models of briefs may help
you:

RESOLVED: _That armed intervention is not justifiable on the part of any
nation to collect, on behalf of private individuals, financial claims
against any American nation._[27]

BRIEF OF AFFIRMATIVE ARGUMENT

First speaker--Chafee

Armed intervention for collection of private claims from any American
nation is not justifiable, for

1. _It is wrong in principle_, because

(_a_) It violates the fundamental principles of international law for a
very slight cause

(_b_) It is contrary to the proper function of the State, and

(_c_) It is contrary to justice, since claims are exaggerated.

Second speaker--Hurley

2. _It is disastrous in its results_, because

(_a_) It incurs danger of grave international complications

(_b_) It tends to increase the burden of debt in the South American
republics

(_c_) It encourages a waste of the world's capital, and

(_d_) It disturbs peace and stability in South America.

Third speaker--Bruce

3. _It is unnecessary to collect in this way_, because

(_a_) Peaceful methods have succeeded

(_b_) If these should fail, claims should be settled by The Hague
Tribunal

(_c_) The fault has always been with European States when force has
been used, and

(_d_) In any case, force should not be used, for it counteracts the
movement towards peace.

BRIEF OF NEGATIVE ARGUMENT

First speaker--Branch

Armed intervention for the collection of private financial claims
against some American States is justifiable, for

1. _When other means of collection have failed, armed intervention
against any nation is essentially proper_, because

(_a_) Justice should always be secured

(_b_) Non-enforcement of payment puts a premium on dishonesty

(_c_) Intervention for this purpose is sanctioned by the best
international authority

(_d_) Danger of undue collection is slight and can be avoided
entirely by submission of claims to The Hague Tribunal before
intervening.

Second speaker--Stone

2. _Armed intervention is necessary to secure justice in tropical
America_, for

(_a_) The governments of this section constantly repudiate just debts

(_b_) They insist that the final decision about claims shall rest with
their own corrupt courts